# Southern-Water-Corp

### Overview
Southern Water Corp is one of the largest desalination plants in Israel, retailing fresh, desalinated water for residential, public, and private consumption. With increased water demand from agricultural and residential usage, Southern Water Corp has had to maximize the availability of its desalination plants to meet continual demand which has resulted in increased revenues for the calendar year. Considering	increased	revenues, the	management	team	has	embarked	on	a	strategic	overview	of	the	business’	financial health,	taking	into	account	revenues,	production	costs,	and	the	associated	impact	this has	on	Earnings	Before	Interest,	Tax,	Depreciation,	and	Amortization	(EBITDA).

The	economics	modeling	team	has	noted	the	sharp	increase	in	market	demand	for processed	water	by	studying	the	bids	for	treated	water	on	the	Open	Water	Market
(OWM).	The	OWM	has	supplied	the	past	years’	worth	of	data	to	be	analyzed. Concerns	have	been	raised	about	the	significant	maintenance	events	that	occur	every three	years	for	a	period	of	four	months,	which	is	known	as	the	Four	Month	Maintenance Event.	These	events	have	to	occur	across	the	Kootha	and	Surjek,	which	will	significantly reduce	water	production	and	increase	production	costs	on	a	per	liter	basis.	Additionally, with	maintenance	and	production	costs	forecast	to	double	while	sales	revenues	remain unchanged,		Southern	Water	Corp	management	is	concerned	about	the	cost competitiveness	of	each	unit	as	well	as	how	this	cost	stacks	up	in	a cost	curve	when compared	to	the	average	market	costs.
